Kylo was involved in the destruction of Luke's Jedi. Haven't decided yet how I want this to have gone. One possibility:

Kylo was ordered by Snoke to destroy Luke's order. Of course, Kylo didn't want to kill his friends and hurt his loved ones, but he also wanted to ingratiate himself with Snoke. At the same time, he couldn't simply fail at destroying the Jedi, as they would then fall to another attack ordered by Snoke. So Kylo immersed himself in Sith texts found in the Empire Archives, and learned an advanced form of Force Stasis, which he used to put Luke's Jedi to sleep until they could be revived, possibly years. He orchestrated a brutal attack on the Jedi, as played by Force-controlled slavers he had captured, and set fire to the Jedi Temple they were staying at to erase trace of his manipulations.

Kylo surrounds himself with advisors, who know of his desires, or at least some of them. With them, he has planned for a break from Snoke and Hux, as well as various other possibilities. Without them, he also has planned for a complete break if he was to be betrayed, or if it was needed for him to disappear.

The Knights of Ren was both a promotion by Snoke, and a way to watch Kylo and make sure he behaves. Kylo knows this, and his plans include breaking away from the Knights. At the same time, he is torn because of the companionship he found with the Knights during his apprenticeship.

While Snoke is busy being Supreme Leader, both Hux and Kylo make ample use of simulations to predict and guide their choices.

Hux's goal is the absolute rule of the First Order, and thus the destruction of its enemies: the Jedi, the Resistance, the New Republic, and worlds not under the First Order's control, in this order.

Kylo's goal is the reformation of the Jedi. That makes him an independent force in all conflicts, simultaneously for and against most other actors. He has a strong moral code, but one which differs from both the absolutes of the First Order and the Jedi. He abhors unnecessary death, and even has nightmares about people whose death he deemed necessary, second-guessing himself all the time. At the same time, he does believe that some death is necessary, and is doubtful about redemption; he also accepts that not everyone may be saved right now, that even while he is working towards reducing the amount of suffering in the Galaxy, he sometimes has to make terrible choices so as not to derail his plans and fail before he has a chance to act.


