We're going with the Starkiller Base as Ilum theory. That provides us with some interesting plot points related to the changes we make:

1) Kylo is ultimately trying to rebuild a Force-user group. Not Dark Side, not Light Side. Just Force. But he'll need crystals for lightsabers. Synth crystals are too strongly associated with the Dark Side, so he can't rely on them. Plus, the whole spiritual search for your own crystal is a useful step in becoming a Force-user.

2) At the same time, he is most likely going to encounter resistance (ha!) to his new group, so having a fixed location that new Force-users have to go to in pilgrimage is probably a bad idea. His enemies could simply lie in wait there, or attack ships around the planet, or bombard the surface from afar. So now he has a planet that is *mobile* and has a *planetary shield* resistant against all but the most foolhardy of maneuvers, a maneuver in fact that requires either extreme piloting or... the guidance of the Force. So he could set the shield to be permanently closed off, and only ever get in or out through that maneuver, perhaps even adding it as an additional step in the quest that new Force-users have to achieve in order to forge their lightsaber.

3) Per previous notes, he has the plan to leave troops on SKB to *disable* the base, not destroy it. That ties in nicely with the above.

As side note, canon says that SKB needs a direct line of sight to its targets. Ilum is initially well-placed for both the attacks on Hosnian Prime and D'Qar. Of course, SKB is mobile, so that might not be as big a clue as it could.

As another note, Jakku is essentially on the way from SKB to D'Qar. In the canon timeline, that's useful. In this fic's timeline, Kylo goes from SKB to Morellia to Jakku, then splits his fleet, sending his Battlecruiser on a vector towards <a mysterious destination> for hiding/preparing (probably to Malachor for Tano, or to Kalyyych for the wookies), his Shuttle as assist/extract team to SKB, a smaller ship carrying the Knights to the Unexplored Regions back to First Order systems, with Kylo himself staying on Jakku.
